Positive scenarios - 
1. verify user can log in with valid credentials
2. verify user has valid email format
3. verify user has valid username
4. verify user has received successful login attempt
5. verify user is able to click on login button
6. verify user is able to click on "Forgot password" link
11. verify user is able to see forgot password page after clicking on the link

Negative scenarios
7. verify user has got error msg for invalid username
8. verify user has got error msg for invalid password
9. verify user has got error for both incorrect
15. verify user cannot retry 6th time login

Edge scenarios
10. verify user can only retry max 5 times 
12. verify email has max 20 characters
13. verify username has max 20 characters
14. verify password has max 20 characters with different types combined
16. verify user has to wait for 10 mins for 6th retry

TC_ID 001 : TO verify that user is able to login with valid username and valid password
Pre conditions : 1. user is on login page
Steps : 1. Click on username field and enter valid username
	2. Click on password field and enter valid password
	3. Click on "Login" button
Test data : username - Somesh
	    password - Somesh@9684
Expected : User should be successfully logged in
Severity : High
Priority : High

TC_ID 002 : TO verify that error message is shown to user when username field is empty and password is filled
Pre conditions : 1. user is on login page
Steps : 1. Click on username field and keep it blank
	2. Click on password field and enter valid password
	3. Click on "Login" button
Test data : username - 
	    password - Somesh@9684
Expected : User should be shown error message as "username cannot be empty"
Severity : med
Priority : med

TC_ID 003 : To verify that account lockout behaviour after 5 consecutive failed login attempts.
Pre conditions : 1. user is on login page
Steps : 1. Click on username field and enter invalid username
	2. Click on password field and enter invalid password
	3. Click on "Login" button
Test data : username - Somesh123
	    password - Somesh@123
Expected : User should be shown error message as "Account locked out due multiple failed login attempts"
Severity : High
Priority : High


Title : After valid credentials, user is not able to view his dashboard successfully

Environment (you can assume: Staging, Chrome latest, Windows) : Windows 10, Asus laptop

Preconditions : 1. User is registered successfully and account is active
		2. user is no login page

Steps to reproduce (match TC_001) : Steps : 1. Click on username field and enter valid username
	2. Click on password field and enter valid password
	3. Click on "Login" button

Test data : username - Somesh
	    password - Somesh@9684

Actual result : login is failed with error message as "Something went wrong. Please try again later"

Expected result : 1. User should be successfully logged in
		  2. Username should be visible on dashboard

Severity : High

Priority : High

Any notes (logs/screenshot mention) : Login.txt, login.png, credentials.txt


Edge cases -
1. verify spaces are not allowed in username and password field
2. verify user is allowed to enter only 20 characters in username field
3. verify user is allowed to enter only 10 characters in password field
4. verify user is able to error message as "Account deactivated" after 3 months of pervious login
5. verify user is able to error message as "Account locked" after 5 consecutive failed login attempts
6. verify user should enter username only in lower case
7. verify user can enter password in upper and lower case
8. verify user gets message of "empty username not allowed" when username field is kept empty and clicked on login
9. verify login behaviour when there is network interruption after clicking the login button
10. verify login behaviour when there is browser crash after clicking the login button



validation : 6. verify user should enter username only in lower case
7. verify user can enter password in upper and lower case

security :

boundary :2. verify user is allowed to enter only 20 characters in username field
3. verify user is allowed to enter only 10 characters in password field
5. verify user is able to error message as "Account locked" after 5 consecutive failed login attempts

environment :

session/network :9. verify login behaviour when there is network interruption after clicking the login button
10. verify login behaviour when there is browser crash after clicking the login button

How would you test the “Forgot Password” functionality on a login page?
- I would test forgot password functionality by Positive, negative, edge. If I find a defect, I would log it with clear steps, actual vs expected result, and severity.
Passwrod masking for new, old and confirm field, reset button, received reset link on mail, clickable link, is password updated in system, is login successful.

scenario - overview of what and which requirement to be tested

test case - detailed information of how and what particular scenario or functionality to be tested

test data - input data used in a particular test case

Severity - how much a defect is affecting the functionlity
priority - urgency to fix a defect
High S high p - failing login functionality with valid credentials
low s high p - application logo missing colors

verification - when software meets design, documentation, reviewing overview, development
validation - when software meets the user, code review, testing, real world data

bug report - a detailed information of a bug which is c=made by tester so that developer can easlity understand the issue and resoilve it.
bug id, title, environment, pre condtions, steps, redproduced, build, version, attachments, occurance, severity